[Music]
radical openness is still a distant
future in the field of school education
if such a hard time figuring out that
learning is not a place but an activity
but I want to tell you the story of Pisa
we see these tests to measure the
knowledge and skills of 50 nodes around
the world and it's really a story how
international comparisons have
globalized the field of Education that
we usually treated in a fair domestic
policy look at how the world looked in
the 1960s in terms of the proportion of
people who had completed high school you
can see the United States ahead of
everyone else and much of the economic
success of the United States draws on
its long standing advantage as the first
mover in education but in the 1970s some
countries caught up in the 1980s the
global expansion of the talent pool
continued and the world didn't stop in
the 1990s so in the 60s the u.s. was
first in the 90s it was 13th and not
because standard said faun but because
they had risen so much faster Elsa Korea
shows you what's possible in education
two generations ago Korea had the
standard of living of Afghanistan today
and was one of the lowest education
performers today every young Korean
finishes high school so this tells us
that in a global economy is no longer
national improvement that's the
benchmark for success but the best
performing education systems
internationally the trouble is that
measuring how much time people spend in
school or what degree they if God is not
always a good way of seeing what they
can actually do look at the toxic mix of
unemployed graduates on our streets why
employers say they cannot find the
people with the skills they need that
tells you that better degrees don't
automatically translate
better skills and better jobs and better
lives service pizza we try to change
this by measuring the knowledge and
skills of people directly and we took a
very special angle to this we were less
interested whether students can simply
reproduce what they've learned in school
but we wanted to test whether they can
extrapolate from what they know and
apply their knowledge in novel
situations now some people have
criticized for as for this they say you
know such a way of measuring outcomes is
terribly unfair to people because we
test students with problems they haven't
seen before but if you take that logic
you know you should consider life unfair
because the test of truths in life is
not whether we can remember what we
learn in school but whether we are
prepared for change whether we are
prepared for jobs that haven't been
created to use technologies that haven't
been invented to solve problems which is
can anticipate today and once hotly
contested our way of measuring outcomes
has actually quickly become the standard
in our latest assessment in 2009 we
measured 74 school systems the together
cover 87% of the economy
this chart shows you the performance of
countries in red sort of below osed
average yellow is so-so and in green are
the countries doing really well you can
see Shanghai Korea Singapore in Asia
Finland in Europe Canada in North
America doing really well you can also
see that there is a gap of almost three
and a half school years between 15
year-olds in Shanghai and 15 year-olds
in Chile and the gap grows to seven
school years when you include the
country which is really poor performance
there's a world of difference in the way
in which young people are prepared for
today's economy but I want to introduce
the second important dimension into this
picture educators like to talk about
equity with speech that we wanted to
measure how they actually deliver equity
in terms of
showing that people from different
social backgrounds have equal chances
and we see that in some countries the
impact of social back on on learning
outcomes is very very strong
opportunities are unequally distributed
a lot of potential of young children is
wasted we see another countries that it
matters much less into which social
context you're born we all want to be
there in the upper right quadrant where
performance is strong and learning
opportunities are equally distributed
nobody and no country can afford to be
there where performance is poor and
there are large social disparities and
then we can debate you know is it better
to be there where performance is strong
at the price of large disparities or
we've want to focus on equity and accept
mediocracy
but actually if you look at how
countries come out on this picture you
see there are a lot of countries that
actually are combining excellence with
equity in fact one of the most important
lessons from these comparisons that you
don't have to compromise equity to
achieve excellence these countries have
moved on from providing excellence for
just some to providing excellence for
all a very important lesson and it also
challenges the paradigms of many school
systems that believe they are mainly
there to sort people and ever since
those results came out policymakers
educators researchers from around the
world have tried to figure out what's
behind the success of those systems but
let's step back for a moment and focus
on the countries that actually started
Pisa and I'm giving them a colored
bubble now and I'm making the size of
the bubble proportional to the amount of
money that countries spent in students
if money would tell you everything about
the quality of learning outcomes you
would find all the large bubbles at the
top now but that's not what you see
spending per student only explains about
or less than 20% of the performance
variation among countries and Luxembourg
for example the most expensive system
doesn't do particularly well
what you see if the two countries were
similar spending achieved very different
results
you also see and I think that's one of
the most encouraging findings that we no
longer live in the in a world that is
neatly divided between rich and
well-educated countries and poor and
badly educated very very important
lesson let's look at this in greater
detail the red dot shows you spending
per student relative to a country's
wealth one way you can spend money is by
paying teachers well and you can see
Korea investing a lot in attracting the
best people into the teaching profession
and Korea also invests into long school
days which drives up costs further last
but not least Koreans want their
teachers not only to teach but also to
develop they invest in professional
development and collaboration many other
things all that costs money
how can Korea afford all of this the
answer is students in Korea learn in
large classes this is the blue bar which
is driving costs down you go to the next
country on the list Luxan book and you
can see the red dot is there exactly it
is for Korea so Luxembourg spends the
same per student as Korea does but you
know parents and teachers and
policymakers and Luxembourg all like
small classes you know it's very
pleasant to work in a small class so
they have invested all the money into
that and the blue bar class size this
driving costs up
but even Luxembourg can spend its money
only once and the price for this is that
teachers are not paid particularly well
students don't have long hours of
learning and basically teachers have
little time to do anything else and
teaching so you can see two countries
spend their money very differently and
actually how they spent their money
merits a lot more than how much they
invest in education let's go back to the
year 2000 remember that was the year
before the iPod was invented this is how
the world looked then in terms of Pisa
performance the first thing you can see
is that the bubbles were a lot smaller
than we spend a lot less on education
about 35% less than education so you ask
yourself
if education has become so much more
expensive has it become so much better
and the bitter truths really is that you
know not in many countries but there are
some countries which have seen
impressive improvements Germany my own
country in the year 2000 featured in the
lower quadrant below average performance
large social disparities and remember
Germany we used to be one of those
countries that comes out very well when
you just count people who have degrees
very disappointing with us people were
stunned by the result and for the very
first time the public debate in Germany
was dominated for months by education
not tax not other kind of issues where
education was the center of the public
debate and then policymakers began to
respond to this the federal government
dramatically raised its investment in it
in education a lot was done to increase
the left chances of students with an
immigrant background or from social
disadvantage and what's really
interesting is that this wasn't just
about optimizing existing policies but
data transformed some of the beliefs and
paradigms underlying German education
for example traditionally the education
of the very young children was seen as
the business of families and you would
have cases where women were seen as
neglecting their family responsibilities
when they sent their children to
kindergarten Pisa has transformed that
debate and pushed early childhood
education right at the center of public
policy in Germany or traditionally the
German education divides children at age
of 10 very young children between those
deemed to pursue careers of knowledge
workers and those who would end up
working for the knowledge workers and
that mainly along socio-economic lines
and that paradigm is being challenged
now to a lot of change and the good news
is 9 years later you can see
improvements in quality and equity
people have taken up the challenge done
something about it or take Korea at the
other end of the spectrum in the year
2000 Korea did already very well
but the Koreans that concerned that only
a small share of the students achieved
the really high levels of excellence
they took up the challenge and Korea was
able to double the proportion of
students achieving excellence in one
decade in the field of reading well if
you only focus on your brightest
students you know what happens is
disparities grow and you can see this
bubble moving slightly to the other
direction but still an impressive
improvement in major overhaul of
Poland's education helped to
dramatically reduce between variability
among schools turnaround many of the
lowest performing schools and raised
performance by over half a school year
and you can see other countries as well
Portugal was able to consolidate its
fragmented school system raise quality
improve equity and so did Hungary so
what you can actually see there's been a
lot of change and even those people who
complain and say that you know the
relative standing of countries on
something like Pisa is just an artifact
of culture of economic factors of social
issues of homogeneity of societies and
so on these people must now concede that
education improvement is possible you
know Poland hasn't changed its culture
it didn't change its economy it didn't
change sort of the compositions of its
population it didn't fire its teachers
it changed its educational policies and
practice very impressive and all that
raiders of course the question what can
we learn from those countries in the
green quadrant who have achieved high
levels of equity high levels of
performance and raised outcomes and of
course the question is can what works in
one context provide a model elsewhere of
course you can't copy and paste
education systems wholesale but these
comparisons have identified a range of
factors that high-performing systems
share everybody agrees that education is
important everybody says it but the test
of choice is how do you weigh that
priority against other priority our
countries pay their teachers relative to
other high-skilled workers would you
want your child
to become a teacher rather than a lawyer
how do the media talk about schools and
teachers those are the critical
questions and what we have learned from
Pisa is that in high performing
education systems the leaders have
convinced their citizens to make choices
that value education their future more
than consumption today and you know
what's interesting I know you don't
won't believe it but there are countries
in which the most attractive place to be
is not the shopping center but this
school those things really exist but
placing a high value on education is
just part of the picture the other part
is they believe that all children are
capable of success you have some
countries where students are segregated
early in their ages you know students
are divided up reflecting the belief
that only some children can achieve
world-class standards but usually that
is linked to very strong social
disparities if you go to Japan in Asia a
finger than Europe parents and teachers
in those countries expect every student
to succeed and you can see that actually
mirrored in student behavior when we
asked students what counts for math
success in mathematics students in North
America what typically tell us you know
it's all of our talent if I'm not born
as a genius in math way there are 30
something else 9 out of 10 Japanese
students say that it depends on my own
investment on my own effort and that
helps you a lot about the system that is
around them in the past different
students were taught in similar ways
high performers on Pisa embraced
diversity this differentiated
pedagogical practices they realize that
ordinary students have extraordinary
talents and they personalize learning
opportunities high-performing systems
also shared clear and ambitious
standards across the entire spectrum
every student knows what matters every
student knows what's required to be
successful and know where that's the
quality of an education system exceed
their quality
it's teachers high-performing systems
are very careful in how they recruit and
select the teachers and how they train
them they watch how they improve the
performances of teachers and
difficulties who are struggling and how
they structure teacher pay they provide
an environment also in which two
teachers work together to frame good
practice and they provide intelligent
pathways for teachers to grow in their
careers and bureaucratic school systems
teachers are often left alone in
classrooms with a lot of prescription or
what they should be teaching
high-performing systems are very clear
what good performance is they set very
ambitious standards but then they enable
their teachers to figure out what do I
need to teach to my students today the
past was about delivered wisdom in
education now the challenge is to enable
user-generated wisdom high performance
have moved on from professional or from
administrative forms of accountability
and controls or how do you check whether
people do what they're supposed to do an
education to professional forms of work
organization they enable their teachers
to make innovations in pedagogy they
provide them with the kind of
development they need to develop
stronger pedagogical practices the goal
of the past was standardization and
compliance high-performing systems have
made teachers and school principals
inventive in the past the policy focus
was on outcomes on provision the
high-performing systems have to help
teachers and school principals to look
upwards to the next teacher the next
school around the Dillards and the most
impressive outcomes of world class
systems is said to achieve high
performance across the entire systems
you've seen Finland doing so well on
pizza but what makes Finland so
impressive is that only 5% of the
performance variation among students
lies between schools every school
succeeds this is where success is
systemic and how do they do that
they invest resources where they can
make most of the difference they attract
this
principles you know the toughest schools
and the most talented teachers into the
most challenging classroom last but not
least those countries align policies
across all areas of public policy they
make them coherent over sustained
periods of time and they ensure that
what they do is consistently implemented
now knowing what successful systems are
doing Disney you tell us how to improve
that's also clear and that's where
somehow the limits of international
comparisons of Pisa are that's where
other forms of research need to kick in
and that's also why these are doesn't
venture into telling countries what they
should be doing but its strengths lies
and telling them what everybody else has
been doing and the example sure of Pisa
shows that data can be more powerful
than administrative control of financial
subsidy so which we usually run
education systems you know some people
argue that changing educational
administration is like moving graveyards
you just can't rely on the people out
there to help you with this but these
are as shown what's possible in
education it has helped countries to see
that improvement is possible
it has taken away excuses from those who
are complacent and it's up countries to
set meaningful targets in terms of
measurable goals achieved by the world's
leaders if we can help every child every
teacher every school every principal
every parent see what improvement is
possible that only the sky is the limit
to educational improvement we have laid
the foundations for better policies and
better lives thank you
you